SQL
The original name of SQL is SEQUEL.

 SQL is a programming language, a tool to connect and interact with the database.
 SQL is a declarative language.

 Declarative means, something is GOING to happen.. get data back from the database.
 So we are stating something that is going to happen. We say WHAT will happen, but 
 we have no idea how its happening.

 Imperative programming. Meaning HOW it will happen. where we go line by line
 saying how it will happen.

Query
 An SQL statement to look at data inside database.

 SQL statement (Query):
 => clause:     SELECT *                     * is the identifier
 => clause      FROM User
 => clause      WHERE role = 'manager';      'manager' is the expression


SQL Standard
 SQL standard started back in the 80s, and till now, companies are still following
 these standards, and even beyond.

So again, what is a database? A structured set of data, that is structured in a 
certain way to scale with organizations that have massive quantities of data.
Database is also a collection of tables that store data.

Schema 
 A schema is something which belongs to a database, and it's a collection of 
 logically-related database objects. In other words, a schema as a way of categorizing
 objects in a database.

Before Database, we had a File Processing System (FPS). 
FPS saves data on files, with no relationship between these files.

When Database systems were introduced, organizations started immigrating from 
FPS to DB systems.


Database Management Software (DBMS) unified all solo features in the FPS, into one 
centralized place managed by one software.. DBMS, using one language.. SQL.

Database Models
     Database Model is a way to organize and store data.

     Hierarchical Model
          Stores data in a tree-like structure

                    Auth
               ---------------
               |              |
             Mo              Andrei
          --------          --------
          |       |         |       |
        Book1   Book1     Book1   Book1
     
     In Hierarchical Model, every parent can have multiple children, but but child
     can only have 1 parent.

     Examples of Hierarchical Model, is XML and HTML.
     - If we delete a parent, all of its children will be gone as well. This kind
       of relationship between the parent and it's children is called Tight Coupling.

     - One to Many relationship
      The Hierarchical Model supports One to Many relationship.
       Auth (one parent) can have many children (one to many), but the children 
       2can only have one parent.
     
     Network Model

     - Many to Many relationship
       Children can have multiple parents.
     - Complex to manage data.


     Relational Model
     Storing data separately, in a Table Structure.
     Table a collection of data organized in a form of columns and row.
     Data in Relational Model, is connected through Linking tables unique 
     identifiers in a new table.


     What is DBMS?
      DBMS guarantees our data is always accessible and safe.
      - Manage the database.
      - CRUD operations (Create, Read, Update, and Delete).
      - Secure the database.
      - Transactions Management. 
     
     The biggest companies that make DB software:
     - Microsoft
     - IBM
     - MySQL
     - ORACLE

     All of these softwares use SQL, but have a slight different features.

     RDMBS => Relational Database Management Software.

     Dr. Edgar Frank Codd invented the RDBMS. He wrote 'Codd's12', rules 
     to be followed to build a RDBMS.

     https://www.w3resource.com/sql/sql-basic/codd-12-rule-relation.php


     Tables
      A collection data sorted in columns of rows.

     columns
       A collection of columns, also known as degrees.

       Domain/'Constraint' of the data: meaning to specify data type in a column. For example,
       only use Date data type in the 'date of birth' column.

       Attributes: columns names (the table header). For example, id, name, email.

     Rows
      Rows, also known as Tuples, A Tuple is a single record of data.
      A row, follows the column constraint.
      A collection of rows, is known as 'cardinality'.


     Primary Key (PK)
      A unique identifier for data.
      - PK cannot be deleted.

     Foreign Key (FK)
      Foreign key references the PK of a different, allowing a relationship to be
      formed, in a new table.


     OLTP (Online Transaction Processing).
     OLTP supports day to day business. Like in Amazon.com, storing daily transactions.

     OLAP Online analytical Processing.
     To analyze collected data and study it, which leads to business decisions 
     based on these studies.

     OLTP vs OLAP Exercise.

     1. Database is being used to log orders and customers.  
          OLTP
     2. Database is being used to figure out what new products we should offer. 
          OLAP
     3. Database is being used to derive statistics for reporting to the executives.
          OLAP
     4. Database is being used to keep track of logged in users.
          OLTP

     
     
     















